Blogpost and news (#2790)
microsoft/autogen: website/blog/2024-05-24-Agent/index.mdx

---
title: Agents in AutoGen
authors: sonichi
tags: [thoughts, interview notes]
---

![agents](img/agents.png)

**TL;DR**

- **AutoGen agents unify different agent definitions.**
- **When talking about multi vs. single agents, it is beneficial to clarify whether we refer to the interface or the architecture.**

I often got asked about two common questions.
1. What's an agent?
1. What are pros and cons of multi vs. single agent?

This blog collects my thoughts from several interviews and recent learnings.

## What's an agent?

> There are many different types of definitions of agents. When I thought about it when building AutoGen, I was looking for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many different types of definitions of agents. When I thought about building AutoGen, I was looking for
```

the most generic notion that can incorporate all these different types of definitions. And to do that we
really need to think about the minimal set of concepts that are needed.

In AutoGen, we think about the agent as an entity that can act on behalf of human intent. They can send messages, receive messages, respond to other agents after taking actions and interact with other agents. We think it's a minimal set of capabilities the an agent needs to
have underneath. They can have different types of backends to support them to perform

> actions and generate replies. Some of the agents can use large models to generate replies. Some other agents can use tools

Reviewer: Are you referring to large language models? or just any machine learning model

a single backend, but also we can have agents that are composed of multiple simpler agents. One can recursively build up more powerful agents. The
agent concept in AutoGen can cover all these different complexities.

## What are pros and cons of multi vs. single agent?

This question is asked in a variety of ways.
> Why shall I use multiple agents instead of a single agent?

> Why think about multi agents when we don't have a strong single agent?

> Does multi-agent increase the complexity, latency and cost?

> When shall I use multi-agents vs. single agent?

When we use the word multi-agent and single-agent, I think there
are at least two different dimensions we need to think about.

* Interface. That means from the user's point of view, do they interact with the system in a single
interaction point or do they see explicitly multiple agents working and need to interact with multiple of
them?
* Architecture. Are there multiple agents underneath running at the backend?

A particular system can have a single-agent interface and a multi-agent architecture, but the users don't need to know that.

### Interface

In some application it's better to have a single interaction point for

> the user to simplify it. But in other applications, for example, when the application is about having multiple

Reviewer: When you say "simplify it", are you referring to simplifying the application or the interaction?

agents debate about a subject, the users need to see what each agent says.

> In that case it's beneficial for them to actually see the multi agents' behavior. Another example is the social

Reviewer: nit pick, just for consistency
```suggestion
In that case, it's beneficial for them to actually see the multi-agents' behavior. Another example is the social
```

simulation experiment: People also want to see the behavior of each agent.

### Architecture

The multi-agent design of the architecture is easier to maintain,
understand and extend than a single agent system. Even for the single agent
based interface, a multi-agent implementation can potentially make the system more modular, and
easier for developers to add or remove components of functionality. It's very important to
recognize that the multi-agent architecture is a good way to build a single agent. While not obvious, it has a root in the society of mind theory by Marvin Minsky in 1986.

> One can start from relatively simple agents, compose them together and make them interact
> in a good way. Then they would exhibit a higher level of intelligence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting with simple agents, one can compose and coordinate them effectively
to exhibit a more higher level of intelligence.
```
Nit pick - I think using "effectively" sounds stronger than "in a good way" - just my opinion though

We don't have a good single agent that
can do everything we want yet. And why is that? It could be because we haven't figured out the right
way of composing the multi-agent to build this powerful single agent. But firstly, we need to have the

> framework that allows easy experimentation of these different ways of combining models and agents. My own experience is that if people practise using multi agents to solve a problem, they often reach a solution faster.

Reviewer: nit pick, for consistency
```suggestion
framework that allows easy experimentation of these different ways of combining models and agents. My own experience is that if people practise using multi-agents to solve a problem, they often reach a solution faster.
```

> framework that allows easy experimentation of these different ways of combining models and agents. My own experience is that if people practise using multi agents to solve a problem, they often reach a solution faster.

Reviewer 3: This is a bit unclear. We can provide some examples of compositions, e.g. group chat turned out to be a simple yet powerful composition. Others like graph based group chat also.

I have high hopes that they can figure out a robust way of building a single agent using this way.

> Otherwise there are just too many possibilities. There are too many ways to build this single agent. If

Reviewer 3: Could reword this better. Keep one sentence for succinctness

> every time you rewrite the entire system, it's not going to be easy to maintain and make progress.

Reviewer 3: It's not entirely true that you need to rewrite entire system. Single agents are quite composable: see many existing frameworks and OpenAI assistant. 

I think we want to emphasize the concept of complex workflows that are inherently multi agents

Reviewer 2: I think specifically tying in "multi-modality" in addition to "complex" would be beneficial

So that's why this modularity from a programming point of view is very useful.

On the other hand, we
don't have to stop there. We can think about multi-agent system as a way to multiply the
power of a single agent. We can connect them with other agents to accomplish bigger goals.

### Benefits of multi-agents

There are at least two types of applications that benefit from multi-agent systems.

- Single-agent interface.
Developers often find that they need to extend the system with different capabilities, tools, etc. And if
they implement that single agent interface with a multi-agent architecture, they can often increase the capability to
handle more complex tasks or improve the quality of the response. One example is complex data analytics.
It often requires agents of different roles to solve a task. Some agents are good at retrieving the data and

> presenting to others. Some other agents are good at running deep analytics and providing insights. We can also have agents which can do critics and suggest more actions. Or agents that can do planning, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
presenting to others. Some other agents are good at running deep analytics and providing insights. We can also have agents which can critique and suggest more actions. Or agents that can do planning, and so on.
```

Usually, to accomplish a complex task, one can build these agents with different roles.

> > If you don't know about Chi Wang and Microsoft Research's work, please check it out. I want to give a real world production use case for Skypoint AI platform client Tabor AI https://tabor.ai AI Copilot for Medicare brokers - selecting a health plan every year for seniors (65 million seniors have to do this every year in the US) is a cumbersome and frustrating task. This process took hours to complete by human research, now with AI agents 5 to 10 minutes without compromising on quality or accuracy of the results. It's fun to see agents doing retail shopping etc. where accuracy is not that mission critical. AI in regulated industries like healthcare, public sector, financial services is a different beast, this is Skypoint AI platform (AIP) focus.

Reviewer 3: The inline quotes are bit distracting... have them at the end or together in the same place is better. There is also no mention of the quote and context from the article itself.

Reviewer 4: Agreed... is Tabor AI providing a single-agent interface? If so, perhaps start with "As an example of a real-world production use case for single-agent interfaces, Skypoint AI's platform, Tabor AI..."

If not, then perhaps at the end of the article in a separate section.

>
> > Tisson Mathew, CEO @ Skypoint

- Multi-agent interface. For example a chess game needs to have at
least two different players. A
football game involves even more entities. Multi-agent debate
and social
simulation are good examples too.

![leadership](img/leadership.png)

### Cost of multi-agents

Will using multiple agents increase the cost, latency, and chance of failures, compared to using a single agent? It depends on how the multi-agent system is designed, and surprisingly, the answer can be the opposite.

- Even if the performance of a single agent is good enough, you may also want to make this single agent teach some other relatively cheaper agent so that they can become
better with low cost. [EcoAssistant](/blog/2023/11/09/EcoAssistant) is a good example of combining GPT-4 and GPT-3.5 agents to reduce the cost while improving the performance even compared to using a single GPT-4 agent.

> - A recent use case reports that sometimes using multi-agents with a cheap model can outperform a single agent with an expensive model:

Reviewer 2: I think it is important to acknowledge that multi-agent systems can be expensive for really advanced use cases. 
But a comment that might be able to be helpful is to compare the cost of MAS vs human cost something like

"sure very complex Mult-Agent systems with leading frontier models are expensive, but compared to having humans accomplish the same task they are exponentially more affordable"

I can give a specific quote about this regarding our savings / efficiency bump for our use case at BetterFutureLabs if it would be helpful for you

>
> > Tisson Mathew, CEO @ Skypoint

- Multi-agent interface. For example, a chess game needs to have at
least two different players. A
football game involves even more entities. Multi-agent debates
and social
simulations are good examples too.

![leadership](img/leadership.png)

### Cost of multi-agents

Very complex mult-agent systems with leading frontier models are expensive, but compared to having humans accomplish the same task they can be exponentially more affordable.

> > Quote by Justin here
> >
> > > Justin's name and title here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> While not inexpensive to operate, our multi-agent powered venture analysis system at BetterFutureLabs is far more affordable and exponentially faster than human analysts performing a comparable depth of analysis.
>
> > Justin Trugman, Cofounder & Head of Technology at BetterFutureLabs
```

the most generic notion that can incorporate all these different types of definitions. And to do that we
really need to think about the minimal set of concepts that are needed.

In AutoGen, we think about the agent as an entity that can act on behalf of human intent. They can send messages, receive messages, respond to other agents after taking actions and interact with other agents. We think it's a minimal set of capabilities that an agent needs to
have underneath. They can have different types of backends to support them to perform

> actions and generate replies. Some of the agents can use AI models to generate replies. Some other agents can use programmed tools

Reviewer 4: Sorry, I meant here to change tools to functions, so would suggest "Some other agents can use functions underneath to generate..."
